Newsletters: add 406 (2026-05-22) (#2757)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2026-05-22-newsletter.md

  [peer-observer][peer-observer site] platform including infrastructure for
  extracting events from Bitcoin Core nodes using IPC, logs, P2P, and
  RPC sources. He also describes ongoing development around archiving, anomaly
  detection, and alerting tools.

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #29136][] adds an `addhdkey` RPC that imports a specified
  [BIP32][] extended private key, or generates one if none is specified,
  without using it to produce any output scripts. This allows a wallet to
  store a signing key for future use (e.g. for a multisig script), without
  immediately generating addresses from it. The PR also adds a new

>   `unused(KEY)` [descriptor][topic descriptor] type, which is returned by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `unused(KEY)` [descriptor][topic descriptors] type, which is returned by
```

Broken link.

  in Newsletter [#400][news400 rbf] and the BOLT specification update covered
  in Newsletter [#404][news404 rbf].

- [LDK #4575][] adds a `splice_in_inputs` API that allows users to manually
  select UTXOs when [splicing][topic splicing] funds into a channel. The
  selected UTXOs are fully consumed, with their value minus fees added to the
  channel and no change output created. This complements the existing
  amount-based splice-in flow, in which the caller specifies the amount to be
  added and the wallet selects the inputs. However, the two input selection
  flows cannot be mixed in the same funding contribution.

- [LND #10814][] removes the deprecated `SendPayment`, `SendPaymentSync`,
  `SendToRoute`, `SendToRouteSync`, and `TrackPayment` endpoints, which were
  scheduled for removal in version 0.21 (see Newsletter [#340][news340 lnd]).
  Callers should use the V2 replacements: `SendPaymentV2`, `SendToRouteV2`,
  and `TrackPaymentV2`. The PR also removes the deprecated single-channel
  `outgoing_chan_id` field, requiring callers to use the multi-channel
  `outgoing_chan_ids` field (see [Newsletter #33][news33 lnd]).

> - [rust-bitcoin #6191][] adds support for encoding and decoding the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Rust Bitcoin #6191][] adds support for encoding and decoding the
```

Broken link

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #406'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2026/05/22/
name: 2026-05-22-newsletter
slug: 2026-05-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
FIXME:bitschmidty

## News

- **TCP hole punching for Bitcoin nodes behind NATs**: 0xB10C [posted][hole punch del]
  to Delving Bitcoin about a possible new proposal to make more nodes lying behind a

>   home router NAT reachable. The need comes from the fact that making `-natpmp=1` by

Reviewer 2: nodes don't really become reachable (as in everyone can connect to them), but they can, under the right circumstances, accept inbound connection / offer inbound connection slots.

```suggestion
  home router NAT accept inbound connections. The need comes from the fact that making `-natpmp=1` by
```

>   home router NAT reachable. The need comes from the fact that making `-natpmp=1` by

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure it's a "fact" that `-natpmp=1` didn't cause any increase, but the data I've looked at and described in https://bnoc.xyz/t/did-the-number-of-reachable-nodes-in-residential-isps-increase-since-bitcoin-core-v30-0/122 suggests there wasn't a big spike, as some have hoped for.

```suggestion
  home router NAT reachable. The need comes from the observation that making `-natpmp=1` by
```

Reviewer 2: Also not sure if "The need" is the right description here.

  default starting from [Bitcoin Core v30.0][] did not increase the number of reachable
  nodes in residential ISPs as expected.

>   0xB10C's proposal leverages TCP hole punching, a technique that allows two nodes behind

Reviewer 2: the general technique is "hole punching", being limited to TCP is a Bitcoin (Core) specific thing.

Also, It's far from my idea alone. @willcl-ark and others played a significat role in this too. I just wrote it up and posted it to delving :)

```suggestion
  The idea leverages hole punching, a technique that allows two hosts behind
```

  certain types of NAT to connect directly, without relaying traffic through a server.
  The process works like this: Two unreachable nodes, Alice and Bob, connect to a
  coordinator node, Charlie, known as the rendezvous server. Charlie learns the public
  endpoints (i.e. IP address and port) of the nodes, and provides this information to its peers.
  Alice and Bob simultaneously initiate a TCP connection to each other, using the same local

>   port used for the connection to Charlie. This creates a mapping in the NATs,

Reviewer 2: This is one of the possible methods described, but the delving post also discusses ways of not needing a Charlie / coordinator, which you mention below. So maybe only explain hole punching here (which isn't something new for P2P networks, but the application to Bitcoin is new I think), and then go into the possible ways of doing this on Bitcoin P2P in the next paragraph?

```suggestion
  The process works like this: Two unreachable hosts, Alice and Bob, connect to a
  coordinator host, Charlie, known as the rendezvous server. Charlie learns the public
  endpoints (i.e. IP address and port) of the hosts, and provides this information to Alice and Bob.
  Alice and Bob simultaneously initiate a connection to each other, reusing the same local
  port used for the connection to Charlie. This creates a mapping in the NATs,
```

Reviewer: Hey @0xB10C! Thanks for the feedback, I will address your comments soon.

  allowing the nodes to complete the handshake and establish a connection. Since this specific
  technique works on TCP, which requires precise synchronization between nodes, it produces
  higher failure rates with respect to its UDP counterpart.

>   0xB10C provided two possible approaches to implement this in the Bitcoin protocol,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  0xB10C mentions multiple possible approaches for an implementation in the Bitcoin protocol,
```

With "coordinating through a rendezvous", "handing off", and "Tor/i2p" I think it's fine to say multiple. Saying "two possible approaches" and then listing two and another one reads weird.

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #406'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2026/05/22/
name: 2026-05-22-newsletter
slug: 2026-05-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
FIXME:bitschmidty

## News

- **TCP hole punching for Bitcoin nodes behind NATs**: 0xB10C [posted][hole punch del]
  to Delving Bitcoin about an idea to make more nodes behind a

>   home router NAT accept inbound connections. The initial concept comes from the observation

Author: Is "home" germane to the topic?

Reviewer: Yes, the post reference mostly private home routers.

  that making `-natpmp=1` by default starting from [Bitcoin Core v30.0][] did not increase
  the number of reachable nodes in residential ISPs as expected.

  The idea leverages hole punching, a technique that allows two hosts behind

>   certain types of NAT to connect directly, without relaying traffic through a server.

Author: Maybe 

```suggestion
  certain types of NATs to connect directly, without relaying traffic through a server.
```

>   The process works like this: Two unreachable hosts, Alice and Bob, exchange their public

Author: ```suggestion
  The process works like this: two unreachable hosts, Alice and Bob, exchange their public
```

>   endpoints (i.e. IP address and port), through a third party or by leveraging Tor, and simultaneously

Reviewer 2: The Tor part might be confusing here for readers. I think it's fine to only mention "third party" here.

```suggestion
  endpoints (i.e. IP address and port), through a third party, and simultaneously
```

  initiate a connection to each other. This creates a mapping in the NATs,
  allowing the hosts to complete the handshake and establish a connection. Since the proposed
  technique works on TCP, which requires precise synchronization between nodes, it produces

>   higher failure rates with respect to its UDP counterpart.

Author: Maybe 
```suggestion
  higher failure rates with compared to a similar technique using UDP.
```

>   0xB10C mentioned multiple approaches for an implementation in the Bitcoin protocol. A first set

Author: Bitcoin protocol is misleading. Maybe

```suggestion
  0xB10C mentioned multiple approaches for an implementation using Bitcoin's P2P protocol. A first set
```

  requires a bridge, referred to as rendezvous server, to allow Alice and Bob to exchange endpoint
  information. The server could either provide a matchmaking service, to allow unreachable hosts

>   to offer their connection slots, or it could decide to hand off a connection

Author: Maybe, based on my understanding. cc: @0xB10C 

```suggestion
  to offer their connection slots, or it could decide to hand off one of its existing connections
```

  RPC sources. He also describes ongoing development around archiving, anomaly
  detection, and alerting tools.

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #29136][] adds an `addhdkey` RPC that imports a specified
  [BIP32][] extended private key, or generates one if none is specified,
  without using it to produce any output scripts. This allows a wallet to
  store a signing key for future use (e.g. for a multisig script), without
  immediately generating addresses from it. The PR also adds a new
  `unused(KEY)` [descriptor][topic descriptors] type, which is returned by
  `listdescriptors` so the stored key can be included in wallet backups.

> - [Bitcoin Core #34893][] updates the `combinepsbt` RPC to preserve BIP174

Author: ```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #34893][] updates the `combinepsbt` RPC to preserve [BIP174][]
```

  proprietary fields (see Newsletters [#72][news72 psbt] and
  [#181][news181 psbt]) when combining [PSBTs][topic psbt]. Previously,
  `combinepsbt` would silently drop the proprietary fields, resulting in the
  loss of application-specific PSBT metadata. The `decodepsbt` RPC already
  parses, serializes, and displays those fields properly.

- [Bitcoin Core #34860][] removes the `include_dummy_extranonce` option from
  the `CreateNewBlock()` method (see Newsletter [#392][news392 mining]).
  Bitcoin Core now always appends dummy padding to the internal coinbase
  scriptSig when creating blocks at heights 0 through 16, where the [BIP34][]
  height encoding alone is too short to satisfy the consensus minimum
  scriptSig length. However, the padding is not included in the
  `scriptSigPrefix` field of the `CoinbaseTx` struct exposed to [Stratum
  V2][topic pooled mining] clients connected through the Mining IPC interface

>   (See Newsletter [#310][news310 ipc] and [#388][news388 ipc]).

Author: ```suggestion
  (see Newsletter [#310][news310 ipc] and [#388][news388 ipc]).
```

- [Bitcoin Core #31298][] updates the `combinerawtransaction` RPC to reject
  unrelated transactions, instead of silently returning the first one and not
  reporting that they could not be merged. Bitcoin Core now strips input
  scriptSigs and witnesses from each transaction, compares the resulting
  unsigned transaction hashes, and returns an error if they do not match.

- [Bitcoin Core #28802][] adds support for command-specific options to
  `ArgsManager`, Bitcoin Core's CLI argument parser. Commands can now declare
  which options apply to them, allowing `ArgsManager` to list those options
  under the relevant command's help output and automatically reject invalid

>   command-option combinations. The PR applies this to `bitcoin-wallet`'s (See

Author: ```suggestion
  command-option combinations. The PR applies this to `bitcoin-wallet`'s (see
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #406'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2026/05/22/
name: 2026-05-22-newsletter
slug: 2026-05-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes an idea to use TCP hole punching to help
Bitcoin nodes behind NATs accept inbound connections.
Also included are our regular sections describing recent changes to services
and client software and summarizing notable changes to popular Bitcoin
infrastructure software.

## News

- Significant update to BIP322\: Generic Signed Message Format: Oliver Gugger

>   [posted][guggero bip322 ml] in April to the Bitcoin Development Mailing List about his ideas how

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  [posted][guggero bip322 ml] in April to the Bitcoin Development Mailing List about his ideas on how
```

>   to round out BIP322. As Gugger had been implementing support in btcd, he had noticed a number of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  to round out BIP322. As Gugger had been implementing support in btcd, he had noticed several
```

>   open questions and some gaps in the proposal. He proposed three major amendments to the proposal:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  open questions and gaps in the proposal. He proposed three major amendments to the proposal:
```

  - Human-readable prefixes to distinguish the three signature variants.
  - Inclusion of UTXO information in the "Proof of Funds" variant.
  - Support for PSBT-based message signing.

>   After some discussion and incorporating feedback on the PSBT construction, the update to BIP322

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  After some discussion and incorporating feedback on the PSBT construction, the BIP322 update
```

>   was published. Gugger advanced BIP322 to Complete, signaling that his planned work was concluded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  was published. Gugger advanced BIP322 to Complete, signaling that he has concluded his planned work.
```

  Since the update, it resurfaced that Coldcard had [shipped support][cc 322] for BIP322 in March.

>   Since BIP322 had been first proposed in 2018, we recommend that any projects who may have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Since BIP322 was first proposed in 2018, we recommend that any projects that may have
```

  implemented support for BIP322 before the update this year review their compatibility with the
  latest version of [BIP322].

- **TCP hole punching for Bitcoin nodes behind NATs**: 0xB10C [posted][hole punch del]
  to Delving Bitcoin about an idea to make more nodes behind a
  home router NAT accept inbound connections. The initial concept comes from the observation

>   that making `-natpmp=1` by default starting from [Bitcoin Core v30.0][] did not increase

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  that setting `-natpmp=1` by default starting from [Bitcoin Core v30.0][] did not increase
```

  the number of reachable nodes in residential ISPs as expected.

  The idea leverages hole punching, a technique that allows two hosts behind
  certain types of NATs to connect directly, without relaying traffic through a server.
  The process works like this: two unreachable hosts, Alice and Bob, exchange their public

>   endpoints (i.e. IP address and port), through a third party, and simultaneously

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  endpoints (i.e. IP address and port) through a third party and simultaneously
```

  initiate a connection to each other. This creates a mapping in the NATs,
  allowing the hosts to complete the handshake and establish a connection. Since the proposed
  technique works on TCP, which requires precise synchronization between nodes, it produces

>   higher failure rates with compared to a similar technique using UDP.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  higher failure rates compared to a similar technique using UDP.
```

  0xB10C mentioned multiple approaches for an implementation using Bitcoin's P2P protocol. A first set

>   requires a bridge, referred to as rendezvous server, to allow Alice and Bob to exchange endpoint

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  requires a bridge, referred to as a rendezvous server, to allow Alice and Bob to exchange endpoint
```

  information. The server could either provide a matchmaking service, to allow unreachable hosts
  to offer their connection slots, or it could decide to hand off one of its existing connections

>   to another peer instead of evicting it due to lack of free inbound slots. He also described

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  to another peer instead of evicting it due to a lack of free inbound slots. He also described
```

  a way to perform hole punching directly under [Tor/I2P][topic anonymity networks], bypassing
  the need for a third-party server to establish the connection. In this approach, Alice would
  start listening on a dedicated Tor/I2P endpoint, to which Bob would connect and start the
  hole-punching process.

>   The proposal has not been formalized yet, and many questions still need to be answered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The proposal has not been formalized yet, and many questions remain unanswered.
```

>   0xB10C asked for feedback from the community and invited discussion to address the many open points,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  0xB10C asked for community feedback and invited discussion to address many open points,
```

  such as how to classify hole-punch connections, reliability of TCP hole punching,
  possible attacks, and implementation efforts.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Ibis Wallet announced:**
  [Ibis Wallet][ibis wallet] is an Android wallet built on BDK supporting coin
  control, [RBF][topic rbf] and [CPFP][topic cpfp] fee management, multisig,
  hardware signing device integration using QR codes, [silent payments][topic
  silent payments], and [Tor][topic anonymity networks] integration. It also

>   supports optional second layers including Spark, Liquid, and in the future

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  supports optional second layers, including Spark, Liquid, and, in the future,
```

  [Ark][topic ark].

- **LDK Server announced:**
  Spiral announced [LDK Server][ldk server], an API-first Lightning node daemon
  built on LDK Node for payment processors and wallet providers. It provides a gRPC
  interface, an embedded BDK-based wallet, and a Model Context Protocol (MCP)
  server for AI-agent interactions with the node.

- **Mempool.space v3.3.0 released:**
  Mempool [v3.3.0][mempool v3.3.0] adds [taproot][topic taproot] script tree
  visualizations, updated [PSBT][topic psbt] previews, improvements to [fee
  estimation][topic fee estimation], [ephemeral dust][topic ephemeral anchors]
  support, stale block comparisons, sighash icons, and a merkle-proof API, among
  other features.

- **peer-observer P2P monitoring tooling:**
  0xB10C [outlined][peer-observer delving] some open-source components used by his

>   [peer-observer][peer-observer site] platform including infrastructure for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  [peer-observer][peer-observer site] platform, including infrastructure for
```

  extracting events from Bitcoin Core nodes using IPC, logs, P2P, and
  RPC sources. He also describes ongoing development around archiving, anomaly
  detection, and alerting tools.

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #29136][] adds an `addhdkey` RPC that imports a specified
  [BIP32][] extended private key, or generates one if none is specified,
  without using it to produce any output scripts. This allows a wallet to
  store a signing key for future use (e.g. for a multisig script), without
  immediately generating addresses from it. The PR also adds a new
  `unused(KEY)` [descriptor][topic descriptors] type, which is returned by

>   `listdescriptors` so the stored key can be included in wallet backups.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  `listdescriptors`, so the stored key can be included in wallet backups.
```

  scriptSigs and witnesses from each transaction, compares the resulting
  unsigned transaction hashes, and returns an error if they do not match.

- [Bitcoin Core #28802][] adds support for command-specific options to
  `ArgsManager`, Bitcoin Core's CLI argument parser. Commands can now declare
  which options apply to them, allowing `ArgsManager` to list those options
  under the relevant command's help output and automatically reject invalid
  command-option combinations. The PR applies this to `bitcoin-wallet`'s (See
  [Newsletter #32][news32 dump]) `-dumpfile` option, which is now registered
  only for the `dump` and `createfromdump` commands.

- [Eclair #3298][] updates its internal [RBF][topic rbf] logic to follow the
  new [BOLT2][] feerate bump rule, which is designed to ensure compliance with
  [BIP125][]'s replacement rules at low feerates. Instead of only applying the
  previous 25/24 feerate multiplier, Eclair now uses whichever is larger: that
  multiplier or an additional 25 sat/kw. This matches the LDK behavior covered
  in Newsletter [#400][news400 rbf] and the BOLT specification update covered
  in Newsletter [#404][news404 rbf].

> - [LDK #4575][] adds a `splice_in_inputs` API that allows users to manually
>   select UTXOs when [splicing][topic splicing] funds into a channel. The

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [LDK #4575][] adds a `splice_in_inputs` API that allows users to
  select UTXOs when [splicing][topic splicing] funds into a channel manually. The
```

  selected UTXOs are fully consumed, with their value minus fees added to the

>   channel and no change output created. This complements the existing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  channel, and no change output is created. This complements the existing
```

[mempool v3.3.0]: https://github.com/mempool/mempool/releases/tag/v3.3.0
[peer-observer delving]: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/peer-observer-a-tool-and-infrastructure-for-monitoring-the-bitcoin-p2p-network-for-attacks-and-anomalies/1988/4
[peer-observer site]: https://public.peer.observer/
[news72 psbt]: /en/newsletters/2019/11/13/#bips-849
[news181 psbt]: /en/newsletters/2022/01/05/#bitcoin-core-17034
[news392 mining]: /en/newsletters/2026/02/13/#bitcoin-core-32420
[news310 ipc]: /en/newsletters/2024/07/05/#bitcoin-core-30200
[news388 ipc]: /en/newsletters/2026/01/16/#bitcoin-core-33819
[news32 dump]: /en/newsletters/2019/02/05/#bitcoin-core-13926
[news400 rbf]: /en/newsletters/2026/04/10/#ldk-4494
[news404 rbf]: /en/newsletters/2026/05/08/#bolts-1327
[news340 lnd]: /en/newsletters/2025/02/07/#lnd-9456
[news33 lnd]: /en/newsletters/2019/02/12/#lnd-2572
[news223 erlay]: /en/newsletters/2022/10/26/#bitcoin-core-23443
[hole punch del]: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/tcp-hole-punching-for-bitcoin-nodes-behind-home-nats/2497
[Bitcoin Core v30.0]: https://bitcoincore.org/en/releases/30.0/
guggero bip322 ml: https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/qd6BNz9gxCk/m/k1fHq4RKAQAJ

> cc 322: https://blog.coinkite.com/bip322-wif/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[guggero bip322 ml]: https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/qd6BNz9gxCk/m/k1fHq4RKAQAJ
[cc 322]: https://blog.coinkite.com/bip322-wif/
```

Reviewer 5: Thanks, fixed.

## News

- **TCP hole punching for Bitcoin nodes behind NATs**: 0xB10C [posted][hole punch del]

>   to Delving Bitcoin about a possible new proposal to make more nodes lying behind a

Reviewer 2: IMO it's not even a proposal yet - at least not in the sense of a BIP. It's more an "idea" and we were brainstorming on it.

I think you can also drop "lying".

```suggestion
  to Delving Bitcoin about an idea to make more nodes behind a
```
